1.So far, so good. The classification of trivial tweets makes sense except for the last one,
2.which results in a division by zero. How can we handle that?
3.[ 123 ]Classification II – Sentiment Analysis
4.Accounting for unseen words and
5.other oddities
6.When we calculated the preceding probabilities, we actually cheated ourselves. We
7.were not calculating the real probabilities, but only rough approximations by means of
8.the fractions. We assumed that the training corpus would tell us the whole truth about
9.the real probabilities. It did not. A corpus of only six tweets obviously cannot give us
10.all the information about every tweet that has ever been written. For example, there
11.certainly are tweets containing the word "text", it is just that we have never seen them.
12.Apparently, our approximation is very rough, so we should account for that. This is
13.often done in practice with "add-one smoothing".
14.Add-one smoothing is sometimes also referred to as additive smoothing
15.or Laplace smoothing. Note that Laplace smoothing has nothing to do
16.with Laplacian smoothing, which is related to smoothing of polygon
17.meshes. If we do not smooth by one but by an adjustable parameter
18.alpha greater than zero, it is called Lidstone smoothing.
19.It is a very simple technique, simply adding one to all counts. It has the underlying
20.assumption that even if we have not seen a given word in the whole corpus, there is
21.still a chance that our sample of tweets happened to not include that word. So, with
22.add-one smoothing we pretend that we have seen every occurrence once more than
23.we actually did. That means that instead of calculating the following:
24.We now calculate:
25.Why do we add 2 in the denominator? We have to make sure that the end result
26.is again a probability. Therefore, we have to normalize the counts so that all
27.probabilities sum up to one. As in our current dataset awesome, can occur either
28.zero or one time, we have two cases. And indeed, we get 1 as the total probability:
